Updates and Revisions to the Cloud Docker Documentation (#6363)
magento/devdocs: src/cloud/docker/docker-containers-cli.md

---
group: cloud-guide
title: Docker CLI Containers
functional_areas:
  - Cloud
  - Docker
  - Configuration
---

## CLI Containers

The CLI containers provide `magento-cloud` and `{{site.data.var.ct}}` commands to perform file system operations and to interact with the application.

The following CLI containers, most of which are based on a [PHP-CLI version 7 image](https://hub.docker.com/r/magento/magento-cloud-docker-php), provide `magento-cloud` and `{{site.data.var.ct}}` commands to perform file system operations:

-  `build`—extends the CLI container to perform operations with writable filesystem, similar to the build phase
-  `deploy`—extends the CLI container to use read-only file system, similar to the deploy phase
-  `cron`—extends the CLI container to run cron
-  `node`—based on node image, used for NPM activities

For example, you can check the state of the your project using the _ideal-state_ wizard:

Run the `{{site.data.var.ct}}` ideal-state command.

```bash
docker-compose run deploy ece-command wizard:ideal-state
```

Sample response:

```terminal
 - Your application does not have the "post_deploy" hook enabled.
The configured state is not ideal
```
{:.no-copy}

> All of the build and deploy processes are defined and configured using the ECE-Tools and Magento Cloud template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the build and deploy processes are defined and configured using {{site.data.var.ct}} and the Magento Cloud template.
```

---
group: cloud-guide
title: Docker CLI Containers
functional_areas:
  - Cloud
  - Docker
  - Configuration
---

> 

Reviewer 2: Please remove line

Author: Removed extra spaces.

## CLI Containers

The CLI containers provide `magento-cloud` and `{{site.data.var.ct}}` commands to perform file system operations and to interact with the application.

The following CLI containers, most of which are based on a [PHP-CLI version 7 image](https://hub.docker.com/r/magento/magento-cloud-docker-php), provide `magento-cloud` and `{{site.data.var.ct}}` commands to perform file system operations:

-  `build`—extends the CLI container to perform operations with writable filesystem, similar to the build phase
-  `deploy`—extends the CLI container to use read-only file system, similar to the deploy phase
-  `cron`—extends the CLI container to run cron
-  `node`—based on node image, used for NPM activities

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove line

Author: Removed extra spaces.

| Command    | Target Containers   |  Notes
| ------------- |  ------------------ |------------------
| cloud-build | build | Used to build the application in production mode, configured via build hook in .magento.app.yml
| cloud-deploy | deploy | Used to deploy the application, configured via deploy hook in .magento.app.yml
| cloud-post-deploy | deploy | Used to deploy the application, configured via deploy hook in .magento.app.yml
| ece-command | deploy | Used to run other commands from ece-tools CLI Tool
| magento-command | deploy | Used to run bin/magento commands
| magento-installer | deploy | Just runs build and then deploy hooks
| mftf-command | deploy | Used to run MFTF command for testing
| run-cron | cron | Used to run cron jobs

To explore what any of the commands are doing, take a look at the scripts in the github [Cloud Docker Repository](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-docker/tree/develop/images/php/cli/bin)

### Build Container

#### Container Information
 - Name: build
 - Base Image: [magento/magento-cloud-docker-php](https://hub.docker.com/r/magento/magento-cloud-docker-php)
   - Based On: [php](https://hub.docker.com/_/php)  

>  

Reviewer 2: Remove line

Author: Removed extra spaces.

This container is used for the build process. This mimics Magento Cloud behaviour so testing of the build and deploy process is as close to production as possible.

#### Container Usage

This container can be used to run commands manually recreating steps from the build process.
```
docker-compose run build magento-command setup:static-content:deploy
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove line

Author: Removed extra spaces.
